---
layout: post
title: Tern GSD 1 month review
published: false
tags:
    - Family
---

I bought a Tern GSD to use with my two daughters, 4.5 & 1.5, about a month and a half ago.  It had been a positive experience overall, until I had a brake fail and a crash last week.  Its really got me reconsidering biking with the kids.

It was drizzling lightly, so I had decided to bike home and drive to pick up my kids, just for their comfort.  I came to a stop at a four-way stop sign in a relatively residential neighborhood.  There was a car that was stopped there ahead of me, but they waved me through, so I started up.  Then another car pulled up and rolled right through the intersection.  I slammed on my brakes, the bike stopped but skidded out, and I kept going with my momentum.  Somehow I managed to stay on my feet, but I was basically standing right in front of the car that went out of turn (which thankfully had stopped after seeing me).

When I got back on my bike, I noticed the front brakes were gone -- no stopping power whatsoever.  I got bike on my bike and rode home, pretty much unscathed.  I couldn't have been going more than 5mph anyway.  I suppose its good the bike stopped, so had my kids been with me, they would not have been hurt (probably scared and shaken up, though).  Had the other car not stopped eventually, though, I would have been flattened.

I don't know how I was able to lose control of my bike so easily -- the odd sensation of having no front brakes might have thrown me off?  The surprise of seeing the car abotu to smash into me?  The slick road conditions?  Do I just need to practice slamming on the brakes a bunch and make sure I can handle it?  Or maybe avoid biking even in light rain?

I'm also trying to understand how my brakes could just totally give out like that, with no warning.  I've had problems with my brakes on a $25 garage sale bike, but I thought spending over $4k on this bike I would get something safe and reliable for taking my kids around on.  Brakes just give out every month and a half?  At that rate, it wouldn't be that long before *both* brakes would give out on me.

I hate to be downer on this community, but I'm hoping I can find some words of advice to feel confident again on my bike with the kids.  We have really loved riding the bike -- my older daughter complains to me every day now that the bike is in the shop, that I have to drive her around in the car.  Everyone is excited for every ride, whether its for an errand, a joy ride, or just pick up and drop off from school / daycare.



